# Introduction to internet and web

## Definition of internet and web
- Internet = interconnection of computer networks
- Web = graphical user interface to access the web servers

## Growth of the internet
There are few factors contributing to the growth of the internet
- Commercial use of internet is allowed
- Development of World wide web and graphical browser
- Affordable personal computers with easy to use graphical oeprating systems


## Intranet and Extranet
### Intranet
A private network which is contained within an organization or business. It's purpose is to share information among coworkers. When an intranet connects to the outside internet, a gateway or firewall protects the internet from unauthorized access.

### Extranet
- A private network that securely shares organiztion's information with external partners such as suppliers, vendors and customers.
- Privacy and security are very important in extranet usage. Digital certificates, encryption of messages, and VPN's are a few technologies used to provide privacy and security for an extranet

## Universal design
- An important concept which states that products must be designed in a way that is easily accessible to everybody. This can be done by improving accessibility to not only normal people but also people with disability.
- Eg: providing text descriptions for images, providing text navigation area at the bottom of the page.


## Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME)
- MIME type indicate the type of data that is being transferred when clients and servers exchange files.
- MIME provides for the exchange of seven different medias on the internet such as audio, video, image, application, messagem multipart and text.
- Eg: MIME type of a web page is text/html whereas for GIF or JPEG images are images/gif and images/jpeg.
- A web server determines the MIME type of a file before sending it to the web browser. The MIME type is sent alongside the document. The web browser then uses the MIME type to determine how to display the document.


## Uniform Resource Locator (URL)
- Uniform resource locator (URL) = address of a resource in the internet
- It is a type of Uniform resource identifier (URI)
- URL consists of a protocol, domain name and the hierarchical location of the file/resource.
Commercial websites such as facebook etc do not have a hierachical location.

## Domain names
- A domain name locates an organization or entity on the internet.
- There are few types of domain names such as subdomain, second level domain and top level domain.

  ### Top level domain
  - A top level domain identifies the rightmost part of the domain name.
  - A generic top level domain for commercial use starts with .com
  - Country code top level domain such as .my represents Malaysia 
  
Eg: www.google.com
- subdomain = www.
- second level domain = google
- top level domain = .com, .my etc

## Markup languages
- Markup languages consist of sets of directions which tell the browser how to display and manage a web document. These directions are known as tags.
- The world wide web consortium (W3C) set the standards for markup languages

  ### Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML)
  SGML is a standard for specifying markup language or tag set

