# 01. Computer  Networks and the Internet

## 1.1 Basic terms
There are several important basic terms in computer networks

### Throughput and loss
Throughput =

Loss = Packets which are not received. Each device has its own loss threshold. It must be within the specified threshold or the device can no longer accept information

### Internet service provider
Provides internet services 

Types of ISP
- Local
- Global

### Hosts
Hosts are known as devices which participate in a connection

**Types of host**
- clients (Eg: computers, smartphones etc)
- server / data centers (devices which provide services such as email services or webpage services)

### Link
Link refers to the connection between devices for communication. 

bandwidth = maximum amount of data which can transmitted over a network in a given time. It is measuared in bits per second (bps)

**Types of link (connection)**
There are various types of links and each of them contain different bandwidth
- wired (twisted pair copper cable, coaxial cable, fiber optic cable)
- wireless (wifi, bluetooth, rfid, infrared, nfc etc)

Fiber optic uses light as the medium of transmission and it has the largest spectrum. As a result, it contains the highest bandwidth which results to higher data rate and throughput.

## Types of network
- Hetrogineous network = network which consists of mulitiple types of devices
- Homogenous network = network which only consists of a specific type of device

### Packet
- Host divides data into segments , and adds header to each segment to generate a packet
- When the packet reachaes its destination, the packets are reassembled into data

### Switch
The main function of switch is to receive and forward packets towards the required destination

**Types of switches**
- link layer switch (layer 2 switch): used in access networks
- router (layer 3 switch): used in core networks

### Route/path
- End to end connection = path/connection from the sender to the receiver
- The route/path typically comprises of links and switches

There are no best path to transmit a packet as there are various paths to transmit a packet. It is up to the network engineer to determine the best path to transmit the packet based on the required application.

Various factors which determine the path
- bandwidth
- length of path
- security
- stability
- availability (determine if the link is available)

## Protocols
Protocols are standardized rules which are followed in network communication.

## 1.2 Access networks
- The primary function of the access network is to connect hosts to the edge router
- Edge router = A specialized router that is located at the boundary of a network which allows an internal network to connect to the external network. It essentially connects hosts to the respective ISP. The edge router is also the first router in the global or regional ISP.
- Access networks may be wired, wireless or a combination of both (hybrid).
- Access network consists of the home network, mobile network and institutional network

## 1.3 Core network
Core network consists of the ISP

**Types of core network**
1. Packet switching (Eg: Internet)
2. Circuit switching (Eg: LAN line, telephone lines)

### Packet switching vs Circuit switching
Generally, packet switching is more efficient than circuit switching. This is due to the factor of requirement of end to end resource reservation.

In circuit switching, the resource must be reserved (dedicated end-to-end connection or circuit) form the source host to the destination host for the entire duration of the communication session. If there are no communication utilizing the resource, the resource which is allocated is wasted.

Meanwhile, packet switching uses resources (e.g., bandwidth) along a path from source host to destination host in an on demand manner.

### Packet switching

**Store and forward transmission**

The main concept of the packet switching is the store and forward transmission. Basically, all bits of a packet must be received before it can be transmitted

Why do we need to store the bits in a packet before transmitting it?
- Identification of bits from various different sources.

**Network performance**
There are two aspects in network performance:
1. Queuing delay =  Amount of time which the packets are waiting in queue before it is transmitted from the router.
2. Packet loss = Packets which are lost as the router can no longer accept and process the packets.

Basically, if the amount of packets received is more than the amount of packets transmitted, congestion will occur at the router as the queue becomes full. This resualts to the increase in queuing delay and packet loss.

An ideal network is where a router which has minimal queuing delay and packet loss. Typically, the router hardware affects the network performance

**Routing protocol**

**The routing protocol is used by each router to determine the shortest path to each destination** and **use the shortest path to configure its forwarding table.**

**Forwarding table:**
Each host has IP address. Each router use forwarding table to map a destination IP address to one of its outgoing link.
