# 05. Polymorphism
- Is the characteristic of being able to assign a different meaning or usage to something in different contexts.
- allow the same operation/message to be carried out on different objects and perform differently

Types of polymorphism
- Static
- Dynamic

## Static Polymorphism
- Method overloading
- Method overloading occurs when there are two methods in the same class with the same name but different parameter data types, the parameter names are irrelevant cause the method name to be overloaded.
- Method overloading does not involve parent class and subclass (extend relationship)

## Dynamic Polymorphism
- Overriding is when subclass provides an implementation or make a change to concrete or abstract methods in the superclass by refers to two methods, one in each class, with exactly the same name and signatures.
- Method overriding involve parent class and subclass (extend relationship)
- It is used when the subclass wants to perform different function from the parent class

## Type
A Type is a set of data values and the operations that can be performed on them.

In scala, thee are two ways to define new type
- class
- traits

### Define type from class
Any class C implicitly forms a type C. 
The set of public methods of the class form the set operations for type C 
The object of class C or its subclasses form the set of objects of that type.

### Scala Trait / Java Interface.
- Interface consist of a set of operations.
- All objects whose classes explicitly “implement” the interface form the set of object of that type.

## Subtype Polymorphism
Object of a subtype can be legally used wherever an object of a supertype is expected is called subtype polymorphism.

## Upcasting and Downcasting
- Known as the process of converting one type to another type (super type or subtype) .
- The process converting subtype to super type is upcasting. The opposite is down casting.
- In Scala, upcasting don’t require any additional syntax, but for downcasting, you needs to use the instance function asInstanceOf[<supertype>] 







