# 05. Swarm Intelligence
SwarmintelligenceisasubfieldinAIfocusingonthe collective behaviour of decentralised and self-organised systems comprisedofrelatively simple agents interacting locally withoneanotherandwiththeenvironment.

Types of swarm intelligence algorithms
1. Particle Swarm Optimization
2. Ant Colony Optimization

## Particle Swarm Intelligence (PSO)
- PSO is used to find the maximum or minimum in a search space.
- a swarmofparticles(individuals)
- each particlerepresentsapotentialsolution
- modifications aremadetotheparticlesthroughoutthealgorithm(asopposedto GA, whereindividualsarecreatedanddestroyed)
- particles are“flown”throughthesearchspacetofindthebestposition.
- the directiontowardswhicheachparticle“fly”isbasedonitsownexperienceand the experienceoftheneighbours.

Parameters of a particle 
- position
- velocity

### PSO Implementation
1. Parameter definition
2. Initialise the swarm
3. Repeat until termination

### Global Best PSO (gbest)

### Local Best PSO (lbest)

### PSO Variants
1. Inertia weight
2. Constriction factor
3. Cognition only model
4. Social-only model
5. Selfless model

## Ant colony optimization (ACO)

### ACO Implementation Steps
1. Initialise the pheromone amount on each edge with small random values. Strictly speaking, edges do not have any pheromone at the beginning.
2. Start with a number of ants at the origin.
3. Identify thepathofeachantfromorigintodestinationbasedontheedgeprobability.
4. Calculate the path length of each ant.
5. Evaporate the pheromone.
6. Deposit the pheromone,i.e. calculate the increment of pheromone on each edge based on the path length and update the pheromoneamount.
7. Repeat step 3 to 6 until termination condition is true.
8. The path with shortest path length is selected as the solution.

### ACO Variants
1. Max-min Ant System
2. Fast Ant System
