# 04.Ethernet
Ethernet is a type of wired protocol which uses a suite of protocols that allows network devices to communicate over a wired LAN connection. 

An Ethernet LAN can connect devices using many different types of wiring media such as Unshielded twised pair cable (UTP). combinnes the physical layer devices and data link layer protocols

Ethernet protocol consists of the physical layer and data link layer.

### Logical link control (LLC)
LLC handles the communication between the upper and lower layers.

### Media Access Control (MAC)
- Frame assembly before transmission and frame disassembly upon reception of a frame.
- MAC layer adds a header and trailer to the network layer PDU

Provides three primary functions:
▪ Frame delimiting – Identifies a group of bits that make up a frame, 
synchronization between the transmitting and receiving nodes.
▪ Addressing – Each Ethernet header added in the frame contains the 
physical address (MAC address) that enables a frame to be delivered to a 
destination node.
▪ Error detection – Each Ethernet frame contains a trailer with a cyclic 
redundancy check (CRC) of the frame contents.

### Carrier sense multiple access (CSMA)
CSMA  is used to resolve media contention. It provides collision detection/collision avoidance. It checks if the media is carrying a signal before transmitting data. 

- CSMA collision detection is used for Ethernet networks
- CSMA collision avoidance is used for wireless networks.

### MAC Address
- Mac address is a leyer 2 protocol
- MAC address is fixed
- MAC address is represented in hexadecimal while IP address is represented in decimal


### How data is transferrred:
The switch checks the MAC address and determines which port to transmit the data. The type of communication is determined based on the MAC address (unicast, multicast, broadcast)

Premable = Synchronization between the transmitter and receiver.


### 4.2 Addresss Relation Protocol (ARP)
- Usually when we transfer data, we don't know the destination MAC address but we know the destination IP address because of the DNS. Thus, we use ARP to find the destination MAC address that is mapped to the destination IPV4 address. It does so by sending the ARP request to all devices to check if destination IP address is the same. If it is the same, it will send back the information of the destination of the MAC address to the source end device and record it in an ARP table
- The ARP table contains the MAC address and the IP address.
- If too many devices request ARP request, it will cause network congestions. To rectify this issue, we segment the devices into multiple LAN's
