# 00. Introduction to Java

## Difference between Java and C/C++
- In a compliler language, the source code is directly compiled into machine code by the machine whereas for interpreter language, the source code is not directly translated by the target machine. Instead, a different program, aka the interpreter, reads and executes the code.
- Java is an interpreter language whereas C/C++ is a compiler language.
- Hence, the Java Development Kit (JDK) is required which allows the ability to perform java programming as well as compiling of java code.
- In Java, the compiler will compile the source code (.java file) into a bytecode (.class file). The bytecode is then converted into the machine code through the java virtual machine (JVM).

## JRE vs JDK
- Java Runtime Environment (JRE) consists of everything necessary to run acompiled Java program, including the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), the Java Class Library,
the java command, and other infrastructure. However, it cannot be used to create new programs.
- Java Development Kit (JDK) is the full featured SDK (software development kit) for Java. It contains everything the JRE has, but also the compiler (javac) and tools (like javadoc and jdb). It is capable of
creating and compiling programs.

## Compiling source code without the usage of any IDE
We can use the command line to compile source code to machine code/ execute bytecode without any IDE but only using the command prompt.

  ### Compiling C/C++ source code to machine code
  Type **gcc file.c -o file.exe** in the terminal, -o means to output

  ### Compile java source file to bytecode
  Type in **javac file.java** in the command prompt

  ### Executing the java bytecode
  Type in **java followed by the file name**

## Data types

### Primitive data type
- Primitive types are the basic types of data.
- Example : boolean , byte , char , short , int , long , float and double
- Primitive variables store primitive values

### Reference data type
- Reference types are any instantiable class as well as arrays
- example : String, Scanner, Random, Integer, Double, etc.
- Reference variables store addresses
