# 01. Introduction to Distributed Systems
- A collection of devices or components which are connected to the network and communicate through message parsing

Example: web browsers, world wide web

## Characteristics of distributed system
1. Concurrency of components
- resources are shared concurrently

2. Lack of global clock
- conduct time synchronization before sharing resources

3. Independent failure of components
- each component can fail independently without affecting other components

## Components
- Independent computers
- middleware which allow the computers to work as it is a single system

## Factors contributing to the need for distributed system
- Ever increasing need to SHARE resources and information
- Widely use of sensor and mobile instruments
- Rapid decreasing cost of powerful workstations
- Widespread use of networks
- Maturity of software technology

## Goals of Distributed System
1. Efficiency
- fast Communication
- efficient Load Distribution

2. Flexibility
- Users viewpoint: ease of use, consistency, reliability
- Systems viewpoint: modularity (support multiple types of devices and OS, scalability, portability, interoperability

3. Consistency
- A system is consistent if there is uniformity in using the system and the
system behaviour is predictable.
- Integrity of the system must be maintained with proper concurrency control
- Inconsistency can be due to lack of global info, potential replication and
partitioning of data, possibility of component failures or complexity of
interaction among modules

4. Robustness
- Able to handle exceptional situations and errors, ex: changes in topology,
long message delays, inability to locate servers.
- Should include security, reliability, protection and access control

## Challenges of Distributed System
1.Heterogeneity (variety and difference)
- system must be able to support different network, OS, programming language, data format etc

2. Openness
- the degree in which the program is able to adapt to the change in hardware and software

3. Security
- System must be safe
- Satisfy the CIA Triad, confidentiality, integrity, and availability

4. Scalability
- System must remain effective when there is a significant increase in the number of resources and the number of users. eg. Internet.

Techniques for scaling:
Hide communication latencies
- Avoid waiting for responses; do something else:
• Make use of asynchronous communication
• Have separate handler for incoming response
• Distribution
- Partition data and computations across multiple machines:
• Move computations to clients (Java applets)
• Decentralised naming services (DNS)
• Replication/caching
- Make copies of data available at different machines:
• Mirrored Web sites
• Web caches (in browsers and proxies)

5. Failure handling
- System must be able to handle system failures

Techniques for handling failure
- Detecting failure – use checksums.
- Masking failures – hidden the failure (eg. retransmission, backup
storage).
- Tolerating failures.
- Recovery from failures.
- Redundancy.
  
6. Concurrency
- allows clients to access a share resources at the same time.

7. Transparency
- conceal complex opearations and the components of distributed system from the user
